Update Data Tiering to Tiered Storage (#2805)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/data-tiering/tiered-data-replicas-forks.md

---
title: Replicas and forks with tiered data
excerpt: How tiered data works on replicas and forks
product: [cloud]
keywords: [tiered storage]
tags: [storage, data management]
---

# How tiered data works on replicas and forks 

There is one more thing that makes Tiered Storage even more amazing: when you keep data in the low-cost object storage tier,

> you pay for this data only once, independently of if you have a [high-availability replica][ha-replica]

Reviewer: Not an English native-speaker :D, but it might sound better as: 
```suggestion
you pay for this data only once, regardless of whether you have a [high-availability replica][ha-replica]

```

  it just removes the reference to that data, which is for all intends and purposes equal to deleting that data from the point of view of that fork
* The primary and other servers are unaffected, as they still have their references and the metadata on their catalogs intact
* We never delete anything on the object storage tier if at least one server references it:
  The data is only permanently deleted (or hard deleted as we internally call this operation) once the references drop to 0

As described above, tiered chunks are only counted once for billing purposes, so dropping or untiering a chunk that is shared with other servers
from a fork will not affect billing as it was never counted for billing purposes.

Droping or untiering a chunk that was only tiered on that fork works as expected and is covered in more detail in the following section. 

## What happens when a chunk is modified on a fork

As a reminder, tiered data is immutable - there is no such thing as updating the data.

You can untier or drop a chunk, in which case what is described in the previous section covers what happens.

> And you can tier new data, at which point a fork deviates form the primary in a similar way as all forks do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And you can tier new data, at which point a fork deviates from the primary in a similar way as all forks do.

```
